Add Cloud IdP delegation docs [EDU-1266] (#1623)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/orgs-and-teams/teams.md

---
title: "Teams"
description: "Create and manage teams in a Seqera Platform Cloud organization, including IdP-delegated teams."
date: "2026-06-29"
last updated: "2026-07-09"
tags: [teams, organizations, administration, sso, idp delegation, cloud pro]
---

Use **teams** to group organization members and collaborators and manage them together. Apply a workspace role to a team, and every member inherits that access. See [User roles](./roles) for the available roles.

:::note
If your organization has [single sign-on (SSO)](../sso/single-sign-on) with IdP delegation enabled, you can delegate a team to an **IdP group** so your identity provider controls its membership. See [Delegate a team to an IdP group](#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).
:::

## Create a team

To create a new team:

1. Go to the **Teams** tab in the sidebar of the organization landing page.
2. Select **Add Team**.
3. Enter the **Name** of the team.
4. Optionally, add the **Description** and the team's **Avatar**.
5. Select **Add**.

> To add members to the team, select **Edit**, then **Members of team**, then **Add member**. Enter the name or email address of an organization member or collaborator.
> 
> ## Edit a team
> 
> 1. Open the **Teams** tab and select the team you want to edit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Edit a team

To edit an existing team:

1. Open the **Teams** tab and select the team you want to edit.
```

2. Select **Edit**.
3. Update the **Name**, **Description**, **Avatar**, or membership.
4. Select **Update** to save.

The same surface is used to delete a team. The **Delete** action is disabled for delegated teams. Clear the **IdP Group** field first.

## Delegate a team to an IdP group

Organizations with an active SSO connection can delegate team membership to an identity provider (IdP) group. After you delegate a team, the IdP becomes the sole authority for who belongs. Seqera evaluates each user's IdP claims at every login and adjusts membership to match.

For how delegation works, see [IdP delegation overview](../sso/idp-delegation/overview).

:::info[**Prerequisites**]{#prerequisites}
You need the following:

- An active SSO connection on your organization. See [Single sign-on (SSO)](../sso/single-sign-on).
- A populated IdP group catalog. See [Manage your IdP group catalog](../sso/idp-delegation/group-catalog/overview).
- An IdP that emits the `groups` claim. See [IdP claim mapping](../sso/idp-delegation/claim-mapping).
- Organization owner access to your Seqera organization.
:::

### Delegate the team

> 1. Open your organization, then select **Settings**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Delegate a team

To delegate a team:

1. Open your organization, then select **Settings**.
```

2. Open the **Teams** tab and select the team you want to delegate, or create a new team.
3. Set the **IdP Group** field to a group from the catalog.
4. Select **Update** to save.

The same IdP group can only be assigned to a single team, and each team can reference exactly one IdP group.

:::caution

> After you delegate the team, your IdP is the sole authority for its membership. Members removed from the IdP group — or whose token stops carrying the `groups` claim — lose their delegated team memberships at their next login. See [What happens at login](#what-happens-at-login).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you delegate a team, your IdP is the sole authority for its membership. Members removed from the IdP group, or whose token stops carrying the `groups` claim, lose their delegated team memberships at their next login. See [What happens at login](#what-happens-at-login).
```
